# NAME

git-annex-shell - Restricted login shell for git-annex only SSH access

# SYNOPSIS

git-annex-shell -c command [params ...]

# DESCRIPTION

git-annex-shell is a restricted shell, similar to git-shell, which 
can be used as a login shell for SSH accounts you want to restrict.

# COMMANDS

* git-annex fromkey file

  This can be used to maually set up a file to link to a specified key
  in the key-value backend. How you determine an existing key in the backend
  varies. For the URL backend, the key is just a URL to the content.

  Example:

	git annex fromkey --backend=URL --key=http://www.archive.org/somefile somefile

* git-annex dropkey [key ...]

  This drops the annexed data for the specified
  keys from this repository.

  This can be used to drop content for arbitrary keys, which do not need
  to have a file in the git repository pointing at them.

  A backend will typically need to be specified with --backend. If none
  is specified, the first configured backend is used.

* git-annex setkey file

  This sets the annxed data for a key to the content of
  the specified file, and then removes the file.

  A backend will typically need to be specified with --backend. If none
  is specified, the first configured backend is used.

Any other command is passed through to git-shell.

# OPTIONS

Same as git-annex or git-shell, depending on the command being run.

# SEE ALSO

[[git-annex]](1)

git-shell(1)

# AUTHOR

Joey Hess <joey@kitenet.net>

<http://git-annex.branchable.com/>

Warning: this page is automatically made into a man page via [mdwn2man](http://git.ikiwiki.info/?p=ikiwiki;a=blob;f=mdwn2man;hb=HEAD).  Edit with care
