I ran git-annex (git version) on three machines with ghc-7.0.2 for about a month, but recently (no more than a week ago) I've started getting this error for every file on "git annex get":

    git-annex-shell: internal error: evacuate(static): strange closure type 30799
        (GHC version 7.0.2 for i386_unknown_linux)
        Please report this as a GHC bug:  http://www.haskell.org/ghc/reportabug

There were no changes to ghc or it's modules, so I assume something has changed in git-annex itself.

strace shows "git annnex get" (on "host1") performing following exec's:

    [pid  9481] execve("/usr/bin/rsync", ["rsync", "-p", "--progress", "--inplace", "-e", "'ssh' 'user@host2' 'git-annex-shell ''sendkey'' ''/remote/path'' ''SHA1-s6654080--abd8edec20648ade69351d68ae1c64c8074a6f0b'' ''--'''", ":", "/local/path/.git/annex/tmp/SHA1-s6654080--abd8edec20648ade69351d68ae1c64c8074a6f0b"], [/* 41 vars */]) = 0
    [pid  9482] execve("/usr/bin/ssh", ["ssh", "user@host2", "git-annex-shell 'sendkey' '/remote/path' 'SHA1-s6654080--abd8edec20648ade69351d68ae1c64c8074a6f0b' '--'", "", "rsync", "--server", "--sender", "-vpe.Lsf", "--inplace", ".", ""], [/* 41 vars */] <unfinished ...>

I've tried running the second command directly from the shell and got the same error message from a remote GHC.
Adding strace before git-annex-shell to remote command yielded something like this in the end:

    stat64("/local/path.git", 0xb727d610) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
    stat64("/local/path.git", 0xb727d6b0) = -1 ENOENT (No such file or directory)
    waitpid(7525, [{WIFEXITED(s) && WEXITSTATUS(s) == 0}], 0) = 7525
    chdir("/home/user")                  = 0
    rt_sigprocmask(SIG_BLOCK, [INT], [], 8) = 0
    write(2, "git-annex-shell: internal error: ", 33git-annex-shell: internal error: ) = 33
    ...

Note that "/local/path" here is not what's specified in rsync arguments at all, and git repo with files-to-be-fetched on "host2" is in "/remote/path", but "/local/path" is present in git remotes there since I mount it via nfs from "host1" (yes, to the same path as it's there):

    [remote "nfs"]
      url = /local/path
      fetch = +refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/nfs/*
      push = refs/heads/*:refs/remotes/host2/*
      annex-uuid = 0a4e14ba-5236-11e0-9004-7f24452c0f05

If I comment that remote out from "/remote/path/.git/config", "git annex get" works fine.
The only git-command git-annex-shell seem to exec there (on "host2") is "git config --list", so it's shouldn't be git trying to do something with it's remotes - it's git-annex itself, right?

Anyways, looks like a simple path-joining error, if "/local/path.git" should be "/local/path/.git" there.

I'm actually quite confused about what it's trying to do with that path.
Connect from "host1" to "host2" just to connect back to "host1"?
What for, when it should just fetch files from "host2"?

Not sure if it's a bug or I'm doing something wrong, but if git-annex really need to check something in git remotes' paths, error message (the one at the top of this post) can be a more descriptive, I guess.
Something like "error: failed to do something with git remote X on a remote host" would've been a lot less confusing than that GHC thing.

Thanks!
