News for git-annex 3.20110624:

There has been another change to the git-annex data store.
Use `git annex upgrade` to migrate your repositories to the new
layout. See [[upgrades]].

The significant change this time is that the .git-annex/ directory
is gone; instead there is a git-annex branch that is automatically
maintained by git-annex, and encapsulates all its state nicely out
of your way.

You should make sure you include the git-annex branch when
git pushing and pulling.

git-annex 3.20110624 released with [[!toggle text="these changes"]]
[[!toggleable text="""
   * New repository format, annex.version=3. Use `git annex upgrade` to migrate.
   * git-annex now stores its logs in a git-annex branch.
   * merge: New subcommand. Auto-merges the new git-annex branch.
   * Improved handling of bare git repos with annexes. Many more commands will
     work in them.
   * git-annex is now more robust; it will never leave state files
     uncommitted when some other git process comes along and locks the index
     at an inconvenient time.
   * rsync is now used when copying files from repos on other filesystems.
     cp is still used when copying file from repos on the same filesystem,
     since --reflink=auto can make it significantly faster on filesystems
     such as btrfs.
   * Allow --trust etc to specify a repository by name, for temporarily
     trusting repositories that are not configured remotes.
   * unlock: Made atomic.
   * git-union-merge: New git subcommand, that does a generic union merge
     operation, and operates efficiently without touching the working tree."""]]
